REPUBLIC ACT NO. 7942, March 03, 1995
AN ACT INSTITUTING A NEW SYSTEM OF MINERAL RESOURCES EXPLORATION, DEVELOPMENT, UTILIZATION, AND CONSERVATION

CHAPTER VIII

QUARRY RESOURCES

SEC. 43. Quarry Permit. - Any qualified person may apply to the provincial/city mining regulatory board for a quarry permit on privately-owned lands and/or public lands for building and construction materials such as marble, basalt, andesite, conglomerate, tuff, adobe, granite, gabbro, serpentine, inset filling materials, clay for ceramic tiles and building bricks, pumice, perlite and other similar materials that are extracted by quarrying from the ground. The provincial governor shall grant the permit after the applicant has complied with all the requirements as prescribed by the rules and regulations.

The maximum area which a qualified person may hold at any one time shall be five hectares (5 has.): Provided, That in large-scale quarry operations involving cement raw materials, marble, granite, sand and gravel and construction aggregates, a qualified person and the government may enter into a mineral agreement as defined herein.

A quarry permit shall have a term of five (5) years, renewable for like periods but not to exceed a total term of twenty-five (25) years. No quarry permit shall be issued or granted on any area covered by a mineral agreement, or financial or technical assistance agreement.

SEC. 44. Quarry Fee and Taxes. - A permittee shall, during the term of his permit, pay a quarry fee as provided for under the implementing rules and regulations. The permittee shall also pay the excise tax as provided by pertinent laws.

SEC. 45. Cancellation of Quarry Permit. - A quarry permit may be cancelled by the provincial governor for violations of the provisions of this Act or its implementing rules and regulations or the terms and conditions of said permit: Provided, That before the cancellation of such permit, the holder thereof shall be given the opportunity to be heard in an investigation conducted for the purpose.

SEC. 46. Commercial Sand and Gravel Permit. - Any qualified person may be granted a permit by the provincial governor to extract and remove sand and gravel or other loose or unconsolidated materials which are used in their natural state, without undergoing processing from an area of not more than five hectares (5 has.) and in such quantities as may be specified in the permit.

SEC. 47. Industrial Sand and Gravel Permit. - Any qualified person may be granted an industrial sand and gravel permit by the Bureau for the extraction of sand and gravel and other loose or unconsolidated materials that necessitate the use of mechanical processing covering an area of more than five hectares (5 has.) at any one time. The permit shall have a term of five (5) years, renewable for a like period but not to exceed a total term of twenty-five (25) years.

SEC. 48. Exclusive Sand and Gravel Permit. - Any qualified person may be granted an exclusive sand and gravel permit by the provincial governor to quarry and utilize sand and gravel or other loose or unconsolidated materials from public lands for his own use, provided that there will be no commercial disposition thereof.

A mineral agreement or a financial technical assistance agreement contractor shall, however, have the right to extract and remove sand and gravel and other loose unconsolidated materials without need of a permit within the area covered by the mining agreement for the exclusive use in the mining operations: Provided, That monthly reports of the quantity of materials extracted therefrom shall be submitted to the mines regional office concerned: Provided, further, That said right shall be coterminous with the expiration of the agreement.

Holders of existing mining leases shall likewise have the same rights as that of a contractor: Provided, That said right shall be coterminous with the expiry dates of the lease.

SEC. 49. Government Gratuitous Permit. - Any government entity or instrumentality may be granted a gratuitous permit by the provincial governor to extract sand and gravel, quarry or loose unconsolidated materials needed in the construction of building and/or infrastructure for public use or other purposes over an area of not more than two hectares (2 has.) for a period coterminous with said construction.

SEC. 50. Private Gratuitous Permit. - Any owner of land may be granted a private gratuitous permit by the provincial governor.

SEC. 51. Guano Permit. - Any qualified person may be granted a guano permit by the provincial governor to extract and utilize loose unconsolidated guano and other organic fertilizer materials in any portion of a municipality where he has established domicile. The permit shall be for specific caves and/or for confined sites with locations verified by the Department's field officer in accordance with existing rules and regulations.

SEC. 52. Gemstone Gathering Permit. - Any qualified person may be granted a non-exclusive gemstone gathering permit by the provincial governor to gather loose stones useful as gemstones in rivers and other locations.
